docs(bodiless-organisms): FilterByGroup - Preset Filter (#1353)
johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS: packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md

filtering for _any_ Group in the respective Category. With multi-select, Groups will be displayed as
checkboxes, permitting your users to specify any selection of Groups they so choose.  
For configuration instructions, see: [Site Builder Details](#site-builder-details).

| Single-Select (Radio Buttons) | Multi-Select (Checkboxes) |
|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------------:|
| ![Filter By Group Component with Radio Buttons](./assets/FilterByGroupRadioButtons.jpg ':size=300') | ![Filter By Group Component with Checkboxes](./assets/FilterByGroupCheckboxes.jpg ':size=300')

Filter By Group Components on separate pages can be configured to use the same site-wide data
source, essentially, linking the filters. By doing this, the Categories and Groups listed in these
components will be shared between the linked filters on their respective pages.

## Content Editor Details

If a Site Builder has added a Filter By Group Component to a page of your site, you can customize
the Groups listed in the component, as well as how they're categorized, using the context menu.

![Filter By Group Context Menu](./assets/FilterByGroupContextMenu.jpg ':size=50%')

> ?> **Note:** If you're doing something where you would benefit from having full access to a Filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
?> **Note:** If you're editing where you would benefit from having full access to a Filter
```

By Group Component (e.g., manipulating Groups, adding new Products, etc.), you should use your
site's primary listing page (e.g., `/products/`), where there is no [Preset
Filter](#configure-a-preset-filter) configured; this will allow you to see all the items in the
filter, as well as edit the Groups as needed.

### Add a Category

To add a Category to a Filter By Group Component:

01. While in [Edit Mode](/ContentEditorUserGuide/#edit-mode), select the Category (or a Group within
    it) that is directly above where you would like to list a new Category, and, within its context
    menu, under "Category," click **Add**.  
    ![Category Context Menu](./assets/CategoryContextMenu.jpg ':size=200')
    - If you are adding the _first_ Category to the Filter By Group Component, there should already
      be an unnamed Category item (with the placeholder text "Category Name") present in the
      otherwise empty Filter body; skip to Step 3.
    - If you intend to add multiple Categories, you may click **Add** once for each Category you
      wish to add.

> 01. Click elsewhere on the page to dismiss the context menu.

Reviewer: Wish we would fix this bug :)

By creating a Preset Filter, you will be locking the Filter UI — disabling the
radio-buttons/checkboxes — preventing your users from selecting alternative search filters.

?> **Note:** In the URI of the page your Filter By Group Component is on, you can see the filter
parameters in the query component; by modifying the query string, a user could select a filter
independent of your Preset Filter.

To create or modify a Preset Filter:

01. Ensure that a Site Builder has configured your target page with a Filter By Group Component that
    has the ability to configure a Preset Filter enabled.
    - A quick way to check this is to:
      01. Go to the desired page.
      01. Enter [Edit Mode](/ContentEditorUserGuide/#edit-mode).
      01. Select a Category or Group in the Filter By Group Component.
          - If no Categories or Groups have been added yet, select the unnamed Category item (with
            the placeholder text "Category Name") that's at the top of the empty filter.
      01. If the context menu has a "Filter" section with a **Page** icon, then the Preset Filter
          feature is enabled for that page; otherwise, you will need to contact a Site Builder /

>           Developer to enable it for you.

Reviewer: I think there should be selection in site builder details for adding presets and this links there.

sitewide data source. While linked filters will share Categories and Groups across pages, Preset
Filters are saved at page-level and not shared.

By creating a Preset Filter, you will be locking the Filter UI — disabling the
radio-buttons/checkboxes — preventing your users from selecting alternative search filters.

?> **Note:** In the URI of the page your Filter By Group Component is on, you can see the filter
parameters in the query component; by modifying the query string, a user could select a filter
independent of your Preset Filter.

To create or modify a Preset Filter:

01. Ensure that a Site Builder has configured your target page with a Filter By Group Component that
    has the ability to configure a Preset Filter enabled.
    - A quick way to check this is to:
      01. Go to the desired page.
      01. Enter [Edit Mode](/ContentEditorUserGuide/#edit-mode).
      01. Select a Category or Group in the Filter By Group Component.
          - If no Categories or Groups have been added yet, select the unnamed Category item (with
            the placeholder text "Category Name") that's at the top of the empty filter.

>       01. If the context menu has a "Filter" section with a **Page** icon, then the Preset Filter

Reviewer 2: `with a **Page** icon` might be been changed to **Filter** icon from implementation. This is different from original mockup.

Author: @dewen, admittedly, I hesitated here. I wasn't sure I wanted to call the item in the context menu a "button," and instead called it an "icon."
- So, you are correct — the _icon_ is a filter icon (`filter_alt`).
- The _label_ under it is "Page," and that's why I referred to it as the "**Page** icon."
- See: [`withFilterSelection.tsx`](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/ff5b9a01e83b13eae171a07fedfdf186c3184f77/packages/bodiless-filtering/src/FilterByGroup/withFilterSelection.tsx#L232)

If you think "button" is the preferable UI term, I will change. 👍

Reviewer: @misterjones  @dewen  recommend consistently here -- what have you done elsewhere?

Author: Found previous instances of "button" — so, went with that.

✅  [Fixed](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/83e9e4326c4fb6ebdaaa6c692d2d435924be0374/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L148).

Preset Filter, the Group will remain in the Preset Filter, and the resulting content shown will
still reflect that Group being part of the Filter.  
<br>
To take advantage of this, you could add Groups to a Filter By Group Component, use them to set up a
Preset Filter, and then remove them, thus concealing what Groups are being used to filter the
displayed content from the user.

### Delete a Preset Filter

To remove a Preset Filter:

01. While in [Edit Mode](/ContentEditorUserGuide/#edit-mode), select a Category or Group, and,
    within its context menu, under "Filter," click **Page**.
01. You will be presented with the _Filter Page_ modal, which will read, "The Saved State is
    filtering this Page for the End User," and you'll see a couple radio buttons.
    01. Select "Clear Saved State from Page."
    01. Click the checkmark to confirm; or  
        Click the "X" icon to cancel.
01. If successful, you will see the confirmation message, "The Saved State has been cleared."
    - Click the "X" icon (or elsewhere on the page) to dismiss the message.

## Site Builder Details

### Usage

```jsx

> import { FilterByGroupClean } from '@bodiless/filtering';

Reviewer 2: `import { FilterByGroupClean as FilterByGroup } from '@bodiless/filtering';`

Reviewer 2: Component name `FilterByGroup` as alias used below.

Author: Oh, wow, good catch.

✅ [Fixed](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/pull/1353/commits/73e01202dc8d1f7b861b8095128cd57a380aaac6)!

    setSelectedTag,
    selectedTag,
  } = useFilterByGroupContext();

  // Get All Suggestions
  const allSuggestions = getSuggestions();

  // Callback To Register New Suggestion
  const addTag = useRegisterSuggestions();
  addTag([{ id: '1', name: 'Tag 1' }]);

  const setSelected = (tag) => setSelectedTag(tag);
  const resetSelected = () => setSelectedTag();
}

> ```

Reviewer: ## adding Presets.

To use presets, the site expects to share node key with primary filter's group/tags & collection.

The suggested pattern is to move your primary filtered data to sitewide collection by setting withNodeKey to use the nodecollection site (https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/pull/1273/ -- see examples/test-site/src/components/ProductListing/ProductListingFlowContainer.tsx for example.  If any content already exists on site, move the fiels to /src/data/site.

Then where you define your filter tokens,  (https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/pull/1273/files see eg examples/test-site/src/data/pages/default-filter/index.tsx )
The primary filter will use (e.g. FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide) adding the token withSiteWideFilter will add the reset feature to a filter.   

If your primary filter on (/products) page and your preset filter wont' use same tokens (say one needs reset ubtton and one doesn't), then we suggest to compose two tokens but they both must include withSiteWideFilter.  Remember as well they must share the same filter nodekey that is stored at site level.

    setSelectedTag,
    selectedTag,
  } = useFilterByGroupContext();

  // Get All Suggestions
  const allSuggestions = getSuggestions();

  // Callback To Register New Suggestion
  const addTag = useRegisterSuggestions();
  addTag([{ id: '1', name: 'Tag 1' }]);

  const setSelected = (tag) => setSelectedTag(tag);
  const resetSelected = () => setSelectedTag();
}
```

### Add Preset Filters

> To use Preset Filters, your site expects to share a node key with the primary filter's Categories

Reviewer 2: @hvanyo I'm not sure if this shared node key is clear for builders, can we provide some example?

Reviewer: @misterjones goes into how below 
Ideally this would link to little section in https://johnsonandjohnson.github.io/Bodiless-JS/#/Development/Architecture/Data?id=working-with-data

I found it in part of tutorial:
https://johnsonandjohnson.github.io/Bodiless-JS/#/Development/Guides/IntroToBodilessConcepts?id=_5-editing-site-level-data

@misterjones  may prehrase 
To use Preset Filters, the feature expects that node data is being shared by placing at site node collection level and this node key is shared with the primary filter's Categories. 

TIP:  Passing `NodeCollection: 'site'` in withNodeKey({ nodeKey: 'filter', nodeCollection: 'site' }) save data at site level instead of page level.

Author: ✅  [Fixed](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/83e9e4326c4fb6ebdaaa6c692d2d435924be0374/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L300-L305).

@hvanyo, I also added a [Node Collections](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/83e9e4326c4fb6ebdaaa6c692d2d435924be0374/packages/bodiless-documentation/doc/Development/Architecture/Data.md?plain=1#L370-L401) section to the "Data and Page Generation" page.
Or, I started one, at least; I'm assuming it could use some more information.
Maybe we can create a GAP ticket to fill out the rest of it?

    });

    export const FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide = flow(
      asFilterByGroup,
      withSingleAllowedTag,
      withSiteWideFilter,
    )(FilterByGroupClean);
    ```
    - **Note:** The Preset Filter requires sitewide data and a sitewide token; adding the token
      `withSiteWideFilter` will add the sitewide filter feature to a filter.

<!-- Inlining HTML to add multi-line info block with unordered list. -->
<div class="warn">
  <strong>Note:</strong> For additional context, the above code snippets were borrowed from the
  BodilessJS Test Site:

  - [`/src/components/ProductListing/ProductListingFlowContainer.tsx`](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/ff5b9a01e83b13eae171a07fedfdf186c3184f77/examples/test-site/src/components/ProductListing/ProductListingFlowContainer.tsx#L32-L39)
  - [`/src/components/FilterByGroup/index.tsx`](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/ff5b9a01e83b13eae171a07fedfdf186c3184f77/examples/test-site/src/components/FilterByGroup/index.tsx#L60-L68)

</div>

?> **Note:** If any content already exists on your site, move the JSON files to `/src/data/site`.

> Then, apply your filter and data container tokens in the page/template/component.

Reviewer 2: should this be `[site]/src/components/` folder?

@misterjones @hvanyo ^^

Reviewer: I didn't intend for this to be path.  The token could be used within a page, within a template or within another component.  Where those live are all different places..

Reviewer 2: I see, so @misterjones can we say `in pages/templates/component section` instead? or something more clear this is not a path.

Author: ✅  [Fixed](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/83e9e4326c4fb6ebdaaa6c692d2d435924be0374/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L349).

> If your primary filter (e.g., on the Products (`/products`) page) and your Preset Filter won't use

Reviewer 2: @hvanyo I'm not sure about this paragraph - primary filter basically is a nested list component with associated tags. The Preset Filter is HOC/token that wraps above the primary filter to provide savable page level filter feature.

I don't see the purpose of creating 2 different tokens here.

Reviewer: @dewen  How would you then create a filter where one filter needs a reset button and one filter doesn't?

Reviewer 2: @hvanyo I might misunderstand the meaning of `Preset Filter` here, is it the Filter with withFilterSelection HOC? or another filter component?

Reviewer: Definition of Preset filter is the filter component that has 'filter' context menu and allows you to save preset filters. 

On the test site example : 

- the Preset Filter is `FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide`
-- which consists of withFilterSelection, no ResetButton & withSiteWideFilter
- The other filter which is the "base" filter is `FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide`
-- which doesn't have the withFilterSelection token and didn't remove Reset but shares the withSiteWideFilter

Maybe we need to rework implementation @misterjones  
@dewen  you have better suggestion

Reviewer 2: @hvanyo now I see, I think the term `Preset Filter` has been used with 2 meanings by context

1. saved filter data, i.e. `... If you're **modifying an existing Preset Filter**`
2. Preset filter component, i.e. `... your Preset Filter won't use
the same tokens ...`

We might just need to make the 2nd case more cleared, by saying `a Preset Filter component` and probably add an example of `FilterByGroupPresetSingleSiteWide` to refer? But actually current (from pending PR) `FilterClean` component from @bodiless/filtering package already includes `withFilterSelection` HOC, the site builder might not have better option to configure it.

@misterjones ^^

Author: @dewen 

- Reworded as ["Preset Filter component"](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/83e9e4326c4fb6ebdaaa6c692d2d435924be0374/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L351).
- Added [code snippet](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/83e9e4326c4fb6ebdaaa6c692d2d435924be0374/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L357-L373) suggested by example given in preceding paragraph ("say, one needs a reset button and one doesn't") and using `FilterByGroupPresetSingleSiteWide` as you suggested.
  - The code snippet is at least a _starting place_ for a code example, as I'm guessing it needs to be fixed in some way.

Reviewer 2: "But actually current (from pending PR) FilterClean component from @bodiless/filtering package already includes withFilterSelection HOC, the site builder might not have better option to configure it."

-- correct myself, this has been changed, `withFilterSelection` was separated from basic Filter.

  BodilessJS Test Site:

  - [`/src/components/ProductListing/ProductListingFlowContainer.tsx`](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/ff5b9a01e83b13eae171a07fedfdf186c3184f77/examples/test-site/src/components/ProductListing/ProductListingFlowContainer.tsx#L32-L39)
  - [`/src/components/FilterByGroup/index.tsx`](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/ff5b9a01e83b13eae171a07fedfdf186c3184f77/examples/test-site/src/components/FilterByGroup/index.tsx#L60-L68)

</div>

?> **Note:** If any content already exists on your site, move the JSON files to `/src/data/site`.

Then, apply your filter and data container tokens in the relevant page, template, or component.

If your primary filter (e.g., on the Products (`/products`) page) and your Preset Filter component
won't use the same tokens (say, one needs a reset button and one doesn't), then we suggest you
compose two tokens — but they both must include `withSiteWideFilter`. Remember, as well, that they
must share the same filter node key that is stored at site level.  
For example:

```tsx
const withSiteWideFilter = withDesign({
  Filter: withNodeKey({ nodeKey: 'filter', nodeCollection: 'site' }),
});

> export const FilterByGroupPresetSingleSiteWide = flow(

Reviewer 2: I think this is not a filter with Preset:
`FilterByGroupPresetSingleSiteWide` => `FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide`

Author: ✅  [Fixed](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/21dee4de9c52689c5ba49098fabc52fe920b41e5/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L364).

  asFilterByGroup,
  withSingleAllowedTag,
  withSiteWideFilter,
)(FilterByGroupClean);

> export const FilterByGroupSingleSiteWideNoReset = flow(

Reviewer 2: @misterjones 
I think this is the Filter with Preset feature since it's added in `withSingleAllowedTagNoReset`, and I think it worth to copy this code snippet from PR:

https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/pull/1273/files#diff-1c0f00f1593c29abc95acf09ff8a51a59b180a423b948ac8aa03db70b680f615R47-R58

The Preset feature added on line 56: `withFilterSelection`.

Author: ✅  [Updated](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/21dee4de9c52689c5ba49098fabc52fe920b41e5/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L370-L388).
* Added suggested code snippet.
* Added a couple code-comments regarding "Preset Filter."

  const resetSelected = () => setSelectedTag();
}
```

### Add Preset Filters

To use Preset Filters, your site expects to share a node key with the primary filter's Groups and
Categories.

The suggested pattern is to move your primary filtered data to a sitewide collection by setting
`withNodeKey` to use the `nodeCollection` 'site'.  
For example:

> 

Reviewer: We want to do this for both the data being filtered (which is your example) and the groups/categories for your filter.

const withSiteWideFilter = withDesign({
  Filter: withNodeKey({ nodeKey: 'filter', nodeCollection: 'site' }),
});

export const FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide = flow(
  asFilterByGroup,
  withSingleAllowedTag,
  withSiteWideFilter,
)(FilterByGroupClean);

```tsx
const ProductListingFlowContainer = asToken(
  asFilterableProductContainer,
  withProductStrictSnapSize,
  withProductVariations,
  asFlowContainerFullWidth,
  asFlowContainerWithMargins,
  withNodeKey({ nodeKey: 'product_listing_cards', nodeCollection: 'site' }),
)(FlowContainer);
```

> If any content already exists on your site, move the files to `/src/data/site`.

Reviewer: move the json files

Author: ✅  [Updated](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/3f98e6ed6bc0b72023e918972d8873168685cde2/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L343).

> If any content already exists on your site, move the files to `/src/data/site`.

Reviewer: maybe make this a tip

Author: ✅  [Updated](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/3f98e6ed6bc0b72023e918972d8873168685cde2/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L343).

> Then, where you define your filter tokens, the primary filter will use a `FilterByGroup` component

Reviewer: Maybe leave out 320 -338 -- We can probably expect them to use the tokens the define in the page/template/component.   Or at least definitely leave out example and say apply your filter & data container tokens in the page/template/component.

Author: ✅  [Updated](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/3f98e6ed6bc0b72023e918972d8873168685cde2/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L345).

(e.g., `FilterByGroupSingleSiteWide`).  
For example:

```tsx
const main = (props) => (
  <Page {...props}>
    <Layout>
      <SectionContent>
        <SectionMargin>
          <FilterByGroupSingleSiteWideNoReset>
            <ProductListingFlowContainer />
          </FilterByGroupSingleSiteWideNoReset>
        </SectionMargin>
      </SectionContent>
    </Layout>
  </Page>
);
```

> Note, adding the token `withSiteWideFilter` will add the reset feature to a filter.

Reviewer: This will go along with the example I commented above -- Maybe start with using preset filter requires 'sitewide data and token' and then move this comment above.

Reviewer: will add the filter feature not reset

Author: ✅  [Updated](https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS/blob/3f98e6ed6bc0b72023e918972d8873168685cde2/packages/bodiless-organisms/doc/FilterByGroup.md?plain=1#L330-L331).
